Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
Here’s a glimpse of what’s ahead.
What do you do
when a situation seems hopeless?
We’ll meet three young people
from Congo (Kinshasa) whose Christian hope
stabilized them when disaster struck.
Does the stress of this world
sometimes follow you home
and weigh on your marriage?
We’ll examine a Bible principle
that can strengthen
your relationship and preserve your home
as a haven of peace.
If we have doubts
from time to time, they need not weaken us.
Our music video this month will
inspire us to feed our faith.
This is the March 2024 edition
of JW Broadcasting!
Our theme this month is “Feed Your Hope.”
Hope is essential for peace,
happiness, courage, and life.
But what is hope?
When the Bible uses the word “hope,”
it’s referring not only
to the desire for something good
but also to the basis
for believing it will happen.
So hope is more than just wishful thinking
or even expectation.
It’s based on fact.
There’s evidence to back it up.
Thus, true hope
can come only from the One
who has the power to fulfill
whatever he promises—Jehovah God.
Jehovah provides hope in abundance.
Notice what Romans 15:13 says about Jehovah:
“May the God who gives hope
“fill you with all joy and peace
“by your trusting in him,
“so that you may abound in hope
with power of holy spirit.”
Yes, Jehovah gives us what we need
to “abound in hope.”
And yet, the apostle Paul also wrote,
as recorded at Colossians 1:23,
that a Christian could be
“shifted away from the hope.”
So we must never take our hope for granted.
We need to feed it.
What do you need to feed hope?
Two things are mentioned at Romans 15:4:
“For all the things that were written beforehand
“were written for our instruction,
“so that through our endurance
“and through the comfort from the Scriptures
we might have hope.”
So did you notice what feeds hope?
“Our endurance”
and “the comfort from the Scriptures.”
The Scriptures
—what we take into our minds
is vital to keeping our hope strong.
For example, recall what happened
shortly after Jesus was executed,
as recorded in Luke chapter 24.
This is part of the conversation
between an unidentified traveler
and the disheartened disciples.
The disciples were beside themselves
with grief over Jesus’ death.
The traveler, though,
was in fact the resurrected Jesus.
The disciples didn’t yet realize this.
So they said, as recorded at Luke 24:21:
“But we were hoping that this man was the one
“who was going to deliver Israel.
“Yes, and besides all these things,
this is the third day since these things occurred.”
This scripture shows just how susceptible
we can be to discouragement
when things don’t turn out as we expect.
But notice what Jesus did to help them
in verses 25-27:
“So he said to them:
‘O senseless ones
“‘and slow of heart to believe all the things
the prophets have spoken!
“‘Was it not necessary
for the Christ to suffer these things
“and to enter into his glory?’
“And starting with Moses
“and all the Prophets,
“he interpreted to them things
pertaining to himself in all the Scriptures.”
So how did Jesus feed their hope?
First, by showing them that they were right
to hope in the fulfillment of the Scriptures
and then by teaching them
how those Scriptures had been fulfilled.
Can we do the same today?
Yes!
When we’re facing challenges
that threaten our hope,
we should ask Jehovah for guidance
by means of his holy spirit,
and then, with the help of the publications
of “the faithful and discreet slave,”
we should meditate carefully
on how the Scriptures are being fulfilled.
It can be difficult to find time for this
in these hectic days.
There are so many claims on our attention
—so many things to know and do.
But what you take into your mind
is vital to keeping your hope alive.
The humanitarian crises facing mankind today
could make any one of us feel anxious.
Experts in fields of technology,
finance, and government
have found it necessary to coin new words
to convey the gravity of the situation.
In 2023,
the word “polycrisis” began to soar in usage.
A polycrisis refers
to many global threats
happening at the same time
—the overlapping of health emergencies,
climate change, wars, forced migrations,
natural disasters, and economic collapse
all happening simultaneously.
A polycrisis
could throw a person
off balance spiritually.
But as students
of Jesus’ sign of the last days,
we have fully anticipated
that there would be
many serious problems
facing mankind at the same time
and on an unprecedented scale.
But isn’t it interesting
that the world itself has seen fit
to come up with an expression
that adequately matches
what we are going through?
Whether they realize it or not,
they’re acknowledging
that Jesus’ words are being fulfilled.
So rather than become eaten up by anxiety,
we can find hope in these very same facts
—if we meditate
on the fulfillment of the Scriptures.
The Scriptures contain the promise of God
—a promise of salvation.
“Jehovah God . . . [will] bring to ruin
those ruining the earth.”
“There is going to be a resurrection.”
“Death will be no more.”
“The righteous will possess the earth,
and they will live forever on it.”
Understanding how the Scriptures apply
and how they’re fulfilled builds our faith.
The stronger our faith is,
the stronger our hope will be
because “faith is the assured
[the assured] expectation
of what is hoped for.”
Do you think often about your hope?
Do you meditate on what it means?
First Thessalonians 5:8 says:
“Let us . . . put on . . .
the hope of salvation
as a helmet.”
As a helmet protects the head,
so hope protects the mind.
Who of us does not need such a helmet?
Perhaps you have a favorite Kingdom song
or original song from jw.org
that keeps Jehovah’s promises
shining brightly in your mind.
When you recall that song,
you’re feeding your hope,
which in turn guards your thinking.
Our hope has to be so real to us
that we can see ourselves in the new world
—no longer battling illness and depression,
but waking up each day with better hearing,
better vision, better looks, better outlooks;
no longer mourning the death of those we love
but, rather, experiencing the thrill
of seeing them come back to life.
What’s the longest life span
you’ve ever heard of?
What’s the greatest number you can think of?
Now combine the two concepts.
Living for—
Well, we could attempt to explain
googolplexes of galactic millenniums.
But the fact is that no matter
how great a period of time
you can possibly fathom,
Jehovah promises us life
that cannot be defined by any number
because it never stops.
That’s what the Bible means
by its many references to everlasting life.
Visualize a project
that would take several thousand years
to plan and complete.
What kind of forests would you like to grow?
Imagine having millions of years to observe,
analyze, and draw new conclusions
from Jehovah’s activities and creative works.
What possibilities exist
for an earth filled with loyal, loving people
who cooperate with the many systems
Jehovah has created?
What kind of knowledge
would you like to acquire
that is currently out of reach
because of our limited life span?
What will it be like to build
on the knowledge of hundreds of generations?
Picture whom you will meet
in the resurrection.
Yes, we think of family members
and faithful ones of old.
But consider what it will be like
to understand how you are related
to every person on this planet
—all the way back to the beginning!
Imagine all intelligent creation
in heaven and on earth
united as one happy family praising Jehovah!
Is this just wishful thinking?
happy thoughts? a dream?
No, this is hope.
It’s meditation on the promise of God,
“who cannot lie”;
meditation on what he has done
to fulfill his promise
—providing the ransom
and establishing a heavenly Kingdom
that will bring mankind back to perfection;
meditation on Jehovah’s personality
—a personality revealed
in his creative works, in the Scriptures,
and mirrored perfectly
by his only-begotten Son—
a personality we know
not only through deep study
but also through our own experience.
And this leads us
to the second way we feed our hope.
Recall that Romans 15:4 said
there are two ways to feed your hope
—“through the comfort from the Scriptures”
but also “through our endurance.”
How does endurance feed your hope?
Well, notice what Paul said about this
back at Romans 5:3-5:
“Not only that,
“but let us rejoice while in tribulations,
“since we know that tribulation
produces endurance;
“endurance, in turn, an approved condition;
“the approved condition, in turn, hope,
“and the hope
does not lead to disappointment.”
Now, the “hope” mentioned here
is referring not to our initial hope.
We already had that when we learned
the promise of God
contained in the Scriptures.
That’s why Paul begins verse 3
with the words “not only that.”
Yes, not only do we rejoice
in our initial hope
but we rejoice in our reinforced hope
—hope made even stronger
through new experiences with Jehovah
as our personal Helper.
Now, the only way
to understand this process fully
is by going through it.
What’s been your experience?
What have you done
when undergoing tribulation?
No doubt you turned to Jehovah for help.
And then what happened?
He helped you.
True, the trial
might not have disappeared,
but you discovered
that you somehow
had the strength to endure it,
or the wisdom to manage it,
or practical aid or encouragement
at just the right time,
or the courage
to continue bearing witness to the truth.
How did you feel in that moment?
Did you sense
that Jehovah heard your prayer?
Did you perceive Jehovah reassuring you
that you and he have a relationship?
When you go through that
—even once—
you no longer wonder
whether you could endure a crisis.
You know you can with Jehovah’s help.
That is hope
—not simply a desire for something good,
but the basis for believing it will happen.
Many of our dear brothers and sisters
have built up a lifetime of such experiences.
That’s why their hope hasn’t weakened
despite waiting for the new world
for decades.
To the contrary, their hope
has been strengthened through experience.
They know firsthand
what Romans 5:3-5 is talking about
—and likely you do as well.
Thank God for hope!
Jehovah is “the God who gives hope.”
May we never become
“shifted away from [our] hope.”
When difficulties arise, feed your hope!
Continue to meditate
on “the comfort from the Scriptures.”
Keep trusting in Jehovah
for strength and wisdom.
And each day,
take note of how he reassures you
that hope
—your hope—
is real.
You can read and listen to so many accounts
right here on jw.org
of your brothers and sisters
who are going through
this exact process.
Let’s hear from three young people
in Congo (Kinshasa) right now.
We began to hear a lot of noise outside.
When I came out, I saw volcano fire.
I saw many people running.
I was the only grown-up at home at the time.
I was very afraid
because it was my first time
seeing such a disaster.
Before the war, we had many things.
But it became worse in July 2017.
So we left,
and our goods were destroyed.
When we heard that there would be war
at our village,
people were very afraid.
We didn’t take many things,
and we went to Uganda.
In the morning,
we were informed
that our house was among the houses
destroyed by the volcano.
This news affected us very much
because when we left,
we took nothing.
So we lost everything.
When we were running away,
my father said that we must go to the beach
to look for a boat.
He was on a motorbike.
He had an accident, and he was wounded.
That wound made him suffer for a time,
and that lead to his death.
We fled from Blukwa to Bunia.
Bunia is very far from Blukwa.
We were very afraid
because in Bunia,
we didn’t have a field
and we didn’t have a house.
So we wondered,
‘How will we live in Bunia?’
The way the brothers and sisters helped me
strengthened my faith.
That strong faith made me joyful.
When we came back to Congo,
I continued studying until I got baptized.
Jehovah’s organization did much,
very much, for us.
First, they took care of us
spiritually and physically.
And second,
they gave us a place to live, a home.
Because of that,
I am so thankful to Jehovah.
What helped at that period of time
was the thought we find
at Psalm 46:1, 2.
That scripture shows
that “God is our refuge.”
So we have nothing to fear
even though the world changes.
And even though ‘the mountain topples
to the depths of the sea,’
we cannot fear.
And I saw the fulfillment of that scripture
in my life.
Even though I’ve had difficult circumstances
in my life,
I cannot give up.
I will serve Jehovah for all my life.
Now I’m feeling very well.
I am very happy
to be in Jehovah’s organization.
I’m determined to serve Jehovah all my days
and to keep my integrity.
I decided to show Jehovah
the same love and happiness shown to me.
Now I’m a regular pioneer.
Now I’m an auxiliary pioneer.
Now I’m a regular pioneer
and a ministerial servant
in our congregation.
I also work as a remote volunteer for Bethel.
Huguette, Espérance, and Moïse
trusted in Jehovah
during a time of great distress,
and their hope grew stronger as a result.
Every time we see Jehovah fulfill a promise,
it strengthens our hope.
In this episode of Our History in Motion,
see how theocratic building projects
show evidence of Jehovah’s blessing.
To advance true worship
and spread the good news,
Jehovah’s people must build.
Theocratic building projects
strengthen our faith
and feed our hope.
How?
Let’s see in this episode
of Our History in Motion.
In ancient times,
Nehemiah was moved to exclaim:
“The good hand of my God was upon me.”
Yes, against daunting odds,
Jehovah provided what was needed
at the right time to advance pure worship.
The same has proved true in modern times.
As the significant year 1914 approached,
the Bible Students, as we were then called,
prepared for an all-out preaching campaign
to publicize the long-hoped-for fulfillment
of Bible prophecy.
So in 1909, C. T. Russell
moved world headquarters
from Pennsylvania to Brooklyn, New York.
Two newly purchased and renovated buildings,
renamed Bethel and the Brooklyn Tabernacle,
accommodated the increased workload.
At the time though,
some thought the preaching work
would end with the birth of the Kingdom
in 1914.
Little did they realize
how much work remained to be done.
Opposition to the Kingdom work
sparked by World War I
peaked with the imprisonment
of eight responsible brothers in 1918.
Combined with the wartime
shortages of supplies,
it appeared impossible
to continue operations in Brooklyn.
The Brooklyn Tabernacle was sold.
But efforts to sell
124 Columbia Heights failed.
Jehovah had plans for it.
The 1920’s saw
a renewed zeal for the ministry
and consequently a massive increase
in the publication and distribution
of books and magazines.
Rather than using commercial printers
to produce our literature,
the decision was made to print it ourselves.
This required
an expanded presence in Brooklyn.
After outgrowing a small printery
in a rented building
and then outgrowing another,
construction commenced
on a new eight-story factory
just a few blocks away
from the expanded Brooklyn Bethel.
Just over a decade later,
during World War II,
Hitler had built
his infamous concentration camps
and persecution of our brothers
increased around the world.
Despite that,
the number of Kingdom publishers
doubled during the war!
Jehovah knew this was no time to slow down.
In 1940, construction began
on a three-story building
at Kingdom Farm in South Lansing, New York.
But what would it be used for?
Only Jehovah knew.
By 1943, the war had made
building materials extremely scarce,
but the brothers
had already finished construction.
Jehovah wanted it used
as the school to train missionaries:
The Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
This marked the beginning of a period
of astounding growth.
To keep pace with the ever-increasing demand
for Bible literature,
in 1955 construction began
on a second Brooklyn factory building.
Eventually, the printery complex
covered five city blocks.
In a 22-year period,
the number of Kingdom publishers worldwide
tripled.
In 1971, a printery was constructed
at Watchtower Farms in upstate New York
and has expanded several times over the years
to increase its printing capacity.
By the mid-1980’s,
from Argentina to Zimbabwe,
we expanded our facilities
at more than 40 branches around the world.
As stated in the January 1, 1986, Watchtower:
“There appears to be no end
to the modern-day expansion . . .
“Jehovah’s organization is building
for an eternal future.”
Currently, in Africa 13 branch facilities
need to be enlarged or renovated.
Over 50 approved
remote translation office projects
are being developed.
And in order to keep up
with publisher growth,
over five major Kingdom Hall projects
need to be completed every single day!
We are producing more videos,
all of which feed our hope.
That means we need more studio space.
Since 2015, studios have been constructed
in the United States, Canada, Britain,
South Africa, and most recently Australasia,
where The Good News According to Jesus
is being produced.
And coming soon is the new media center
at Ramapo, New York.
We have overwhelming evidence
that Jehovah directs
his people’s building work.
So we can be confident
“the good hand of [Jehovah]”
will continue upon us
as we build for an eternal future!
Jehovah has blessed our efforts
to build and advance Kingdom interests,
but our most important building effort
will always be our faith.
Have you ever wondered
if you could endure a severe trial,
such as persecution?
Please listen as Brother Mark Sanderson
of the Governing Body
explains how we can receive peace
in any situation.
Our text this morning is so encouraging
and so strengthening for us.
It reminds us of a special type of peace
that we can experience
that’s not dependent on our circumstances
or on what’s going on around us.
How would you define
that “peace of God”
that’s referred to in our text?
What exactly is it?
Well, now, Insight, Volume 2,
page 592,
says this:
“‘The peace of God,’
“that is the calmness
and tranquility that result
“from a Christian’s precious relationship
with Jehovah God,
“guards his heart and mental powers
“from becoming anxious about his needs.
“He has the assurance that Jehovah God
provides for his servants
“and answers their prayers.
This puts his heart and mind at rest.”
So, now, what do you understand
from that definition?
Well, now, if we look
at Philippians chapter 4
and look at verses 6 and 7 together,
we understand from those verses
that when we pour out
our heart to Jehovah,
when we supplicate him,
when we beg him for his help,
and when we do so
with a thankful spirit,
always being grateful
for the good things that Jehovah gives us
and being confident
that he will bless us and he will help us,
we can receive from Jehovah
that wonderful calmness and tranquility
that puts our minds and hearts to rest.
Now, as Paul goes on to say
there in verse 7,
that “peace of God . . .
surpasses all understanding.”
Now, let’s look at some examples,
first of all, in the Scriptures,
where we see individuals
who experience that peace of God.
Now, first of all,
let’s go to Daniel chapter 3
—Daniel chapter 3—
and let’s go down here to verse 16.
And, of course, now this is the account
of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego.
You remember the situation.
Nebuchadnezzar had erected this image
and had required everyone
to bow down before it.
And when it became evident
that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego
would not do this,
they were brought before the king.
Here’s what they said.
Look at verse 16:
“O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need
to answer you in this matter.
“If it must be,
our God whom we serve
“is able to rescue us
from the burning fiery furnace, O king,
“and to rescue us from your hand.
“But even if he does not,
“let it be known to you, O king,
“that we will not serve your gods
or worship the image of gold
that you have set up.”
Well, now,
the Bible doesn’t record the prayer
that Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego said.
But when you listen to their words,
do you hear their calmness?
Do you hear the tranquility in their voices?
There’s no panic here.
There’s no terror.
They speak confidently and calmly
with full trust in Jehovah.
Well, as you look on at verse 19,
you’ll see that Nebuchadnezzar
becomes furious at this
and he has the furnace heated
seven times hotter than normal.
Verse 22 says
that the king’s command was so harsh
and the furnace was so hot
that the men who were to throw
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in
were all killed
(because the furnace was so hot).
Brothers, this is real.
This is real persecution.
This is real fire.
But what happens?
Look at verse 24.
Nebuchadnezzar looks in the fire.
He says: “Did we not tie up three men
and throw them into the fire?”
“Yes.”
“He said: ‘Look!
I see four men walking about free
“‘in the midst of the fire,
and they are unharmed,
“‘and the fourth one
looks like a son of the gods
[like a son of the gods].’”
Well, now, you talk about “peace of God”
—three men walking about
in the fiery furnace.
I wonder what they were saying.
“Well, what are you going to do today,
Shadrach?
What are we going to do
when we get out of this fiery furnace?”
You see, not in terror and not in panic
but a picture of calmness.
That’s the peace of God.
What about Jehoshaphat?
In 2 Chronicles chapter 20,
let’s look at this one too.
Second Chronicles chapter 20
—now you’ll see here
that Jehoshaphat and the people of Judah
are surrounded by enemy armies.
In verse 12,
look at what he says in his prayer:
“We are powerless before this large crowd
that is coming against us;
“and we do not know what we should do,
but our eyes are toward you.”
Imagine the concern in his heart.
Look at verse 13.
You see, it says that ‘all those of Judah
were standing before Jehovah,
including their little ones, their wives,
and their children.’
See, Jehoshaphat was
perhaps a little bit
in a state of anxiety here,
as if saying:
‘Jehovah, we just don’t know what to do.’
But just like Philippians 4:6, 7 says,
Jehoshaphat supplicated Jehovah.
He begged Him for his help.
He had a thankful heart,
even recounting the ways
that Jehovah had blessed the nation.
And what happened?
Well, the message came from Jehovah
in verse 15:
“Do not be afraid or be terrified
because of this large crowd,
for the battle is not yours but God’s.”
And in verse 17, Jehovah told him:
“You will not need to fight this battle.
“Take your position, stand still,
“and see the salvation of Jehovah
in your behalf. . . .
Do not be afraid or be terrified.”
Well, there’s immediately a different spirit
in Jehoshaphat.
You can tell
that he’s experienced the peace of God
because—look at verse 20 and 21—
he immediately says to the people:
“Listen to me, O Judah
and you inhabitants of Jerusalem!
“Put faith in Jehovah your God
so that you may be able to stand firm.
Put faith in his prophets,
and you will be successful.”
And then he appointed men
to go out and sing
and go before the armies of Israel
as they praised Jehovah.
Well, as a result, of course,
the nation was saved.
Jehoshaphat experienced that calmness,
that tranquility,
that comes from the peace
that only God can give.
Well, the same is true
in our modern times.
In the 1975 Yearbook,
there’s a beautiful experience
about our dear Brother Daniel Sydlik
who served on the Governing Body.
He was jailed
because of his Christian neutrality in 1944.
On his first night in prison,
he was lying on top of his bunk
and he was listening as the steel gates,
he says,
“‘like rumbling thunder, rolled to a close.’
“One by one the sound of those gates
came closer [and closer]
“until his cell gate quivered
and then rolled slowly shut.”
He says: “Suddenly,
“an overwhelmingly sickening sensation
swept over me,
“which made me feel trapped,
without a way out.
“Then just as quickly
followed another sensation
“equally overwhelming,
“which made me feel great peace and joy,
“the kind of peace
that the Bible speaks about
—the peace of God
[that surpasses all understanding].”
Isn’t that wonderful?
How about this one?
This is a farewell letter
that a young brother wrote to his parents
during the time of Nazi Germany.
This is what he wrote to them:
“It is now 9 o’clock of the day of my trial,
“but I must wait till 11:30.
“I am writing these lines in a solitary cell
of the state military court.
“I have such peace,
which is really hardly believable;
“but I have also committed
all to the Lord . . .
so [that] I can calmly wait for [that] hour.”
Then, at 12:35,
he continued his letter:
“It is all over now.
“In view of the fact
that I maintained my objection,
“the death sentence was decreed.
“I listened,
and then after I had spoken the words
“‘Be thou faithful unto death’
and a few other words of our Lord,
“it was all over.
“But never mind that now.
“I have such peace, such tranquility,
that you can’t possibly imagine.”
Isn’t that amazing?
The peace of God
came upon that dear brother
before he was executed.
Well, now, in Russia, what do we see?
Our brothers are facing
armed and masked men
breaking down the doors of their homes,
doing home searches,
breaking up meetings
—court cases, imprisonment.
But there are
so many wonderful experiences
of how Jehovah has given
the peace of God to our brothers.
During one search at a brother’s home,
the brother began to worry and feel anxiety.
He prayed to Jehovah,
“I don’t know what to do; give me advice.”
Just then the investigator
doing the home search
began looking at the magnets
on the brother’s refrigerator
and loudly and expressively read
the inscription
on one of the fridge magnets:
“Do not be anxious, for I am your God.”
The brother understood right away
what he needed to do.
Well, brothers, what’s the point?
Regardless of what
may be happening around us
and what persecution we may face
and how challenging the situation may be,
if we supplicate Jehovah
with a thankful heart,
he will give us a precious gift,
“the peace of God
that surpasses all understanding.”
How refreshing that if we look to Jehovah
for the way out of a trial,
he’ll help us to endure
with inner peace and calm!
Something that could disturb our inner peace
is conflict in a marriage.
How can respect help a couple
reduce conflict and maintain peace?
Let’s see in this episode
of For a Happy Marriage.
Respect:
Sometimes we work so hard to show it
but receive little in return.
The question is,
Does it really have to be that way at home?
We might need to change habits
that we learned growing up.
Or we may realize
that we need to change
our choice of entertainment.
While it may not be easy, it is possible
to cultivate the mutual respect we once had.
A helpful principle
was stated long ago in the Bible:
“Just as you want [others] to do to you,
do the same way to them.”
Husbands especially need to feel respected.
But wives also need to feel valued,
loved, and heard by their husbands.
If we start by doing things
that show we honor our mate,
we’ll create an atmosphere
where respect can grow.
Always remember to consider
how your words will affect your mate
—whether in public
or even in private.
If you must correct a matter,
wait until you are alone.
Use a kind tone and gentle speech.
Even when you disagree,
keep showing
that you value your mate’s opinion.
Think about everything your spouse does,
both the big things and the little things,
to take good care of your family.
Try not to focus on your mate’s flaws.
Commend more than you criticize.
And tell your mate every day
something specific
you appreciate about them.
Peace is the beautiful result
when both husband and wife show respect
to the person who deserves it most
—one another.
Here are three questions for you to discuss
that can help
to build respect in your marriage.
This is simply a chance
to openly express how each of you feels.
Be ready to listen and willing to change.
So if it’s convenient,
pause this video now
and really talk.
Did you catch that?
For a happy marriage, show respect
to the person who truly deserves it
—your mate.
Even if a couple works well together,
raising children may demand greater teamwork.
Note the way the Macías family
is teaching their son with special needs
to build a relationship with Jehovah.
So when I saw my son for the first time,
I saw his big eyes open, and I just thought,
‘Jehovah, what a blessing
you’ve given to me!’
I couldn’t believe that this was our boy.
It was overwhelming!
When I was told
that Jaden is autistic,
I didn’t know what it was.
So I immediately started doing my homework.
I need to know what it is so I can succeed,
because I love this boy,
and I don’t want to fail him.
Being a new mom,
I started doing the research
and talking to our pediatrician.
Every day was like a mystery.
You need that time to process together.
We were like, you know, “Now what do we do?”
It was key to talk to Jehovah because
this can be overwhelming,
just trying to understand the challenges
that you have to prepare yourself for
to endure as an advocate for your child.
I think being present, in our case,
has been very important with Jaden
because there are just glimpses
of his personality
that you’re able to capture
and you might not see it again.
So those are the things that drive us.
We’ve been fortunate enough to have
such a strong set of friends.
They’re the ones that call us and say:
“How are you doing,
“you know, outside of Jaden?
“How are you doing?
What’s keeping you going?”
You know, those are the things
that really stay with us
and help us just keep moving along
and chugging along.
Jaden’s vocabulary is limited.
If he’s angry, we ask him,
“Are you feeling angry?”
“Yes, I’m angry.”
“Well, why?”
“I don’t know.”
“OK, well, what happened?”
I’ll take a picture with my phone.
“You see, you don’t look happy,”
and he’s sad.
I’m like, “Why?”
He’ll slowly let it out, you know.
And then I’ll find a picture on my phone
with him happy.
I’m like, “That’s Jaden, right there.”
And then we work at it.
But I think it helps him to see it
because he sees himself.
And with Jaden,
reading words and writing words
is not really the thing that’s going
to cement anything into his heart or brain,
so most of it is going to be drawn
or like acted out.
Thank goodness
we have so much video content now.
And he loves the Sophia and Caleb videos.
When that came, we were just so grateful
to Jehovah because it really
felt like it was made for us.
When we had the illustrated Bible stories,
it had dialogue and an action title.
I would act those out with him.
When we prepare for an assembly,
we sing the songs
throughout the whole program
so that he feels
that he has an idea of what’s coming.
We were serving in the Spanish congregation,
but we realized we needed
to move to the English congregation
so that Jaden could thrive.
It’s been a fun ride with getting Jaden
to comment at meetings,
telling the friends,
“Hey, you know, he wants to comment,
but it’s going to be something
you don’t understand.”
And they were so good about it.
That constant support was enough for him
to want to do it on his own.
He knows that we have to share our faith.
He knows that others don’t have our hope.
Our ministry is part of our life,
so that means we’re publishers
who get that done.
So we helped him to get to that place.
He’s going to talk about his faith.
He’s going to share it the way he can.
He wants to get baptized.
Yeah, I think that, you know,
when we make it to the new world,
he’s going to know everything
that’s been done
to get us there and to be there as a family.
Just put the water in there.
Nice.
Nice pour, sir.
So many?
So many animals.
So many.
I love you, Mom.
Yes, my love.
I’m so proud of you.
Thanks, Mom.
I think of us
being over a hill, for some reason,
and I think of him being between us
—because that’s always kind of the dynamic—
he’s holding us and saying: “We did it.
We did it together.”
Jehovah has given us the best gift,
which is our son, Jaden.
You’ll be glad to know
that shortly after this video was filmed,
Jaden symbolized his dedication
by water baptism.
Have you ever had a doubt
that weakened your faith?
Do you struggle to believe
that God loves you?
This month’s music video encourages us
to face those doubts with Jehovah’s help.
‘Is it true that this is the path
I should choose?’
I asked myself.
I had a mind full of questions
and, not to mention,
This world didn’t help.
But I made the time to prove
I really have the truth.
When I have to deal
with what distorts my view,
This is what I do:
I feed my faith and starve my doubts.
I beg Jehovah, “Help me out
To feed my faith and starve my doubts.”
And he answers me by giving me what I need
To feed my faith,
To feed my faith.
I can see that the Devil tries
to blur the lines of right and wrong.
But I won’t be complacent,
thinking I can face this
On my own and be strong.
So I look away from what misleads;
I’m not deceived.
Jehovah’s words have proven trustworthy.
My hope is guaranteed!
I feed my faith and starve my doubts.
I beg Jehovah, “Help me out
To feed my faith and starve my doubts.”
And he answers me by giving me what I need
To feed my faith,
To feed my faith.
It could be a well-known verse, meditation,
The words of a song or a conversation
That answers my silent prayers
all through the day
To feed my faith.
I feed my faith and starve my doubts.
I beg Jehovah, “Help me out
To feed my faith and starve my doubts.”
He always answers me
by giving me just what I need
To feed my faith,
To feed my faith.
Jehovah always gives us just what we need.
True hope is built on the promises
of a God who simply “cannot lie.”
Whether we are young or old,
our hope can stabilize us
through both man-made conflict
or natural disasters.
Theocratic building projects
are tangible evidence
that the God of hope is speeding up
the global preaching work
before the end comes.
And when we apply Bible principles
in our marriage, our hope is strengthened
as we see how Jehovah’s Word
promotes peace in our home.
Our postcard this month is from a country
that’s been called the land of the volcanoes,
El Salvador.
Of its 20 youngest volcanoes,
some are still active.
The picturesque Lake Coatepeque
was formed
when a group of volcanoes collapsed,
allowing rainwater to fill the crater.
Despite its mountainous terrain, El Salvador
is known for its agriculture,
especially coffee.
The fertile volcanic soil produces
a highly sought-after coffee
known for its sweetness,
notes of chocolate and caramel,
and gentle acidity.
El Salvador
is Central America’s smallest country
and also its most densely populated.
Jehovah’s Witnesses have been active
in the country since
the first missionaries arrived in 1945.
Those intrepid missionaries
faced the daunting task
of declaring the good news
to roughly one and a half million people.
The Salvadoran people
are kind and industrious,
very hospitable,
and ready to talk about the Bible.
Those first seeds
of Kingdom truth grew rapidly, and in 1972,
Jehovah’s Witnesses gained legal recognition.
Today, the more than 37,000 publishers
conduct almost 20,000 Bible studies.
They preach in Spanish,
Salvadoran Sign Language,
and Mandarin Chinese,
and they declare the good news to inmates
in 20 different prisons.
Nearly one in seven publishers
serves as a pioneer.
This past service year saw
more than a 20 percent increase
in total hours spent preaching.
The brothers enjoy harbor witnessing
in the coastal town of Acajutla.
The El Boqueron Congregation
is located in the coffee-growing region
of El Progreso La Libertad.
After a delicious cup in the morning,
the brothers walk from house to house
and farm to farm.
They conduct on average
50 Bible studies, and this past year,
174 attended the Memorial.
The 66 publishers
of the El Boqueron Congregation
send their warm Christian love and affection.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.